docs/src/theory.md, before:

```@meta
EditURL = "<unknown>/docs/lit/theory.jl"
```

# Theory

The following theory described is meant to be minimal, with mainly the equations presented for reference when reading the code.

## Geometry

### Wing Parametrization

A **half-wing** is defined in terms of a nested trapezoid. A single trapezoid is called a **section**. A section consists of two foil profiles, and their associated chord lengths and twist angles. Between them is their span length with associated _leading-edge_ dihedral and sweep angles. So a general half-wing consisting of ``n`` sections will have ``n`` entries for foils, chords, and twists, and ``n - 1`` entries for spans, dihedrals, sweeps for some ``n \in \mathbb N``. The following illustration should help visualize the concept.

![](https://godot-bloggy.xyz/post/diagrams/WingGeometry.svg)

## Aerodynamics

The aerodynamic analyses in AeroMDAO mainly utilize potential flow theory and solve problems using a _boundary element method_. This essentially is the following Laplace equation problem with the following Robin (?) boundary conditions:

```math
\nabla^2 \phi = 0, \quad \mathbf V \equiv \nabla \phi \cdot \hat{\mathbf n} = 0, \quad \lim_{\mathbf r \to \infty} \phi(\mathbf r) \to 0
```

!!! note
    Implementations of viscous-inviscid coupled analyses for drag prediction (á là XFOIL) are in progress.

### Doublet-Source Panel Method

The doublet-source panel method predicts **inviscid, incompressible, irrotational, isentropic** external flow over surfaces in 2 dimensions.

Source and doublet singularities are placed on the surface, and boundary conditions are imposed on their induced velocity to obtain a well-posed problem. The induced velocity is evaluated by the corresponding free-field Green function for each singularity.

```math

```

The velocities are added to obtain the total induced velocity at a point $\mathbf r$.

```math

```

### Vortex Lattice Method

The vortex lattice method predicts **inviscid, incompressible, irrotational, isentropic** external flow over "thin" surfaces in 3 dimensions.

Vortex filaments are placed on the surface, and boundary conditions are imposed on their induced velocity to obtain a well-posed problem. The induced velocity is evaluated by the Biot-Savart integral for a vortex line of length $\ell$ with a constant circulation strength $\Gamma$.

```math
\mathbf V(\mathbf r, \mathbf r') = \frac{\Gamma}{4\pi} \int_0^\ell \frac{d\boldsymbol\ell' \times (\mathbf r - \mathbf r')}{|\mathbf r - \mathbf r'|^3}
```

The vortices can be set up in various configurations consisting of bound or semi-infinite filaments, commonly in the form of _horseshoes_ or _vortex rings_.

1. _Horseshoe elements:_
   These are defined by a finite _bound leg_ and two semi-infinite _trailing legs_. AeroMDAO encodes this using the following `Horseshoe` type.
   ```julia
   struct Horseshoe{T <: Real} <: AbstractVortexArray
       bound_leg         :: Line{T}
       collocation_point :: SVector{3,T}
       normal            :: SVector{3,T}
       chord             :: T
   end
   ```
2. _Vortex rings:_
   These are defined by four _bound legs_. AeroMDAO encodes this using the following `VortexRing` type.
   ```julia
   struct VortexRing{T <: Real} <: AbstractVortexArray
       left_leg  :: Line{T}
       bound_leg :: Line{T}
       back_leg  :: Line{T}
       right_leg :: Line{T}
   end
   ```

A quasi-steady freestream condition with velocity $\mathbf U$ and rotation $\boldsymbol\Omega$ (in the body's frame) is imposed for the external flow. The induced velocity at a point is given by:

```math
\mathbf V_{\infty}(\mathbf r) = - (\mathbf U + \boldsymbol\Omega \times \mathbf r)
```

The velocities are added to obtain the total induced velocity at a point $\mathbf r$.

```math
\mathbf V(\mathbf r) = \sum_i \frac{\Gamma_i}{4\pi} \int_0^{\ell_i} \frac{d\boldsymbol\ell_i' \times (\mathbf r - \mathbf r_i')}{|\mathbf r - \mathbf r_i'|^3} + \mathbf V_\infty(\mathbf r)
```

Imposing the Neumann boundary condition $\mathbf V \cdot \hat{\mathbf n} = 0$ defines the problem. The construction, in essence, fundamentally results in the following linear system to be solved:

```math
\mathbf A \boldsymbol\Gamma = -V_{\infty} \cdot [\hat{\mathbf n}_i ]_{i = 1, \ldots, N}
```

## Structures

The structural analyses in AeroMDAO utilize _linear finite-element methods_.

Particularly, a $2$-dimensional beam element model has been implemented following the standard formulation using cubic Hermite shape functions based on **Euler-Bernoulli beam theory**. These are embedded into a $3$-dimensional local coordinate system in the vortex lattice method without loss of generality.

The linear system consisting of the stiffness matrix $\mathbf K$ and load vector $\mathbf f$ are solved to obtain the displacement vector $\boldsymbol\delta$.

```math
\mathbf K \boldsymbol\delta = \mathbf f
```

## Aeroelasticity

The vortex lattice method and beam element model are combined into a coupled system to perform static aeroelastic analyses. The analysis is made nonlinear via promotion of the angle of attack $\alpha$ to a variable by specifying the load factor $n$ with a given weight $W$ at fixed sideslip angle $\beta$.

Define $\mathbf x = [\boldsymbol\Gamma, \boldsymbol\delta, \alpha]$ as the state vector satisfying the residual equations:

```math
\begin{align*}
    \mathcal R_A(\mathbf x) & = \mathbf A(\boldsymbol\delta) \boldsymbol\Gamma - \mathbf V_\infty(\alpha) \cdot [\mathbf n_i(\boldsymbol\delta)]_{i = 1,\ldots, N} \\
    \mathcal R_S(\mathbf x) & = \mathbf K \boldsymbol\delta - \mathbf f(\boldsymbol\delta, \boldsymbol\Gamma, \alpha) \\
    \mathcal R_L(\mathbf x) & = L(\boldsymbol\delta, \boldsymbol\Gamma, \alpha) - n W \\
\end{align*}
```

where the lift $L$ is obtained from the Kutta-Jowkowski theorem.

```math
[D, Y, L] = \mathbf R_B^W(\alpha, \beta)\left(\sum_{i = 1}^N \rho \mathbf V_i \times  \boldsymbol\Gamma_i \mathbf l_i(\boldsymbol\delta)\right)
```

and the structural load vector $\mathbf f$ is obtained from conservative and consistent load averaging of the nearfield Kutta-Jowkowski forces.

```math

```

## Flight Dynamics

### Longitudinal Motion

A standard three degrees-of-freedom rigid body model is used for performing flight dynamics analyses in the 2-dimensional longitudinal plane formulated as an initial-value problem. The coupled differential equations are shown in a canonical state-space representation, with the time-evolution of the state vector $\mathbf x$ driven by the forcing function $\mathbf f$ are shown below subject to initial conditions $\mathbf x_0$.

```math
\begin{align*}
    \frac{d\mathbf x}{dt} & = \mathbf f(\mathbf x, t) \\
    \frac{d}{dt}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        u_b \\
        w_b \\
        Q \\
        x_e \\
        y_e \\
        \Theta \\
        \delta_e \\
        m
    \end{bmatrix} & =
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -Qw_b + (T - D(V_\infty)\cos\alpha + L(V_\infty, \delta_e)\sin\alpha - W\sin\Theta) / m \\
        Qu_b + (  - D(V_\infty)\sin\alpha - L(V_\infty, \delta_e)\cos\alpha + W\cos\Theta) / m \\
        (M_A(\alpha, \delta_e, \hat Q) - T\Delta_{zT}) / I_{yy} \\
        u_b \cos\Theta - w_b \sin\Theta \\
        u_b \sin\Theta + w_b \cos\Theta \\
        Q \\
        g(\mathbf x, t) \\
        -c_T T
    \end{bmatrix}
\end{align*}
```
The fuel burn over time (viz. reduction of mass $m$) is computed using a specific fuel consumption value with a linear dependence on the thrust. A manual controller law for the elevator deflection angle $\delta_e$ can also be implemented by providing the function $g(\mathbf x, t)$.

### Full Space

A standard six degrees-of-freedom rigid body model is used for performing flight dynamics analyses in 3 dimensions.

```math

```

## References

1. Mark Drela. _Flight Vehicle Aerodynamics_. MIT Press, 2014.
2. Joseph Katz and Allen Plotkin. _Low-Speed Aerodynamics, Second Edition_. Cambridge University Press, 2001.

---

*This page was generated using [Literate.jl](https://github.com/fredrikekre/Literate.jl).*

Commit message:

Added Prandtl-Glauert transformation setup + updated docs

docs/src/theory.md, after:

```@meta
EditURL = "<unknown>/docs/lit/theory.jl"
```

# Theory

The following theory described is meant to be minimal, with mainly the equations presented for reference when reading the code.

## Geometry

### Wing Parametrization

A **half-wing** is defined in terms of a nested trapezoid. A single trapezoid is called a **section**. A section consists of two foil profiles, and their associated chord lengths and twist angles. Between them is their span length with associated _leading-edge_ dihedral and sweep angles. So a general half-wing consisting of ``n`` sections will have ``n`` entries for foils, chords, and twists, and ``n - 1`` entries for spans, dihedrals, sweeps for some ``n \in \mathbb N``. The following illustration should help visualize the concept.

![](https://godot-bloggy.xyz/post/diagrams/WingGeometry.svg)

## Aerodynamics

The aerodynamic analyses in AeroMDAO mainly utilize potential flow theory and solve problems using a _boundary element method_. This essentially is the following Laplace equation problem with the following Robin (?) boundary conditions:

```math
\nabla^2 \phi = 0, \quad \mathbf V \equiv \nabla \phi \cdot \hat{\mathbf n} = 0, \quad \lim_{\mathbf r \to \infty} \phi(\mathbf r) \to 0
```

!!! note
    Implementations of viscous-inviscid coupled analyses for drag prediction (á là XFOIL) are in progress.

### Doublet-Source Panel Method

The doublet-source panel method predicts **inviscid, incompressible, irrotational, isentropic** external flow over surfaces in 2 dimensions.

Source and doublet singularities are placed on the surface, and boundary conditions are imposed on their induced velocity to obtain a well-posed problem. The induced velocity is evaluated by the corresponding free-field Green function for each singularity.

```math

```

The velocities are added to obtain the total induced velocity at a point $\mathbf r$.

```math

```

### Vortex Lattice Method

The vortex lattice method predicts **inviscid, incompressible, irrotational, isentropic** external flow over "thin" surfaces in 3 dimensions.

Vortex filaments are placed on the surface, and boundary conditions are imposed on their induced velocity to obtain a well-posed problem. The induced velocity is evaluated by the Biot-Savart integral for a vortex line of length $\ell$ with a constant circulation strength $\Gamma$.

```math
\mathbf V(\mathbf r, \mathbf r') = \frac{\Gamma}{4\pi} \int_0^\ell \frac{d\boldsymbol\ell' \times (\mathbf r - \mathbf r')}{|\mathbf r - \mathbf r'|^3}
```

The vortices can be set up in various configurations consisting of bound or semi-infinite filaments, commonly in the form of _horseshoes_ or _vortex rings_.

1. _Horseshoe elements:_
   These are defined by a finite _bound leg_ and two semi-infinite _trailing legs_. AeroMDAO encodes this using the following `Horseshoe` type.
   ```julia
   struct Horseshoe{T <: Real} <: AbstractVortexArray
       bound_leg         :: Line{T}
       collocation_point :: SVector{3,T}
       normal            :: SVector{3,T}
       chord             :: T
   end
   ```
2. _Vortex rings:_
   These are defined by four _bound legs_. AeroMDAO encodes this using the following `VortexRing` type.
   ```julia
   struct VortexRing{T <: Real} <: AbstractVortexArray
       left_leg  :: Line{T}
       bound_leg :: Line{T}
       back_leg  :: Line{T}
       right_leg :: Line{T}
   end
   ```

A quasi-steady freestream condition with velocity $\mathbf U$ and rotation $\boldsymbol\Omega$ (in the body's frame) defines an external flow. The induced velocity at a point is given by:

```math
\mathbf V_{\infty}(\mathbf r) = - (\mathbf U + \boldsymbol\Omega \times \mathbf r)
```

The velocities are added to obtain the total induced velocity at a point $\mathbf r$.

```math
\mathbf V(\mathbf r) = \sum_i \frac{\Gamma_i}{4\pi} \int_0^{\ell_i} \frac{d\boldsymbol\ell_i' \times (\mathbf r - \mathbf r_i')}{|\mathbf r - \mathbf r_i'|^3} + \mathbf V_\infty(\mathbf r)
```

Imposing the Neumann boundary condition $\mathbf V \cdot \hat{\mathbf n} = 0$ defines the problem. The construction, in essence, fundamentally results in the following linear system to be solved:

```math
\mathbf A \boldsymbol\Gamma = -V_{\infty} \cdot [\hat{\mathbf n}_i ]_{i = 1, \ldots, N}
```

### Compressibility Corrections
The Prandtl-Glauert equation is applicable to a weakly compressible flow problem ($0.3 \leq M_\infty \leq 0.7$).

```math
\beta_\infty^2\frac{\partial^2\phi}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2\phi}{\partial y^2} + \frac{\partial^2\phi}{\partial z^2} = 0, \quad \beta_\infty^2 = \left(1 - M_\infty^2\right)
```

The Prandtl-Glauert transformation $\phi(x,y,z; \beta_\infty) \to \bar\phi(\bar x, \bar y, \bar z)$ converts this equation into an equivalent incompressible flow problem in a "morphed" geometric space. This "bar" map simultaneously scales the coordinates $(\bar x,\bar y, \bar z) = (x,\beta y, \beta z)$ and the potential $\bar\phi = \beta^2 \phi$. Hence the transformed equation satisfies the Laplace equation $\bar\nabla^2 \bar\phi = 0$, where $\bar\nabla$ is differentiation with respect to the transformed coordinates.

## Structures

The structural analyses in AeroMDAO utilize _linear finite-element methods_.

Particularly, a $2$-dimensional beam element model has been implemented following the standard formulation using cubic Hermite shape functions based on **Euler-Bernoulli beam theory**. These are embedded into a $3$-dimensional local coordinate system in the vortex lattice method without loss of generality.

The linear system consisting of the stiffness matrix $\mathbf K$ and load vector $\mathbf f$ are solved to obtain the displacement vector $\boldsymbol\delta$.

```math
\mathbf K \boldsymbol\delta = \mathbf f
```

## Aeroelasticity

The vortex lattice method and beam element model are combined into a coupled system to perform static aeroelastic analyses. The analysis is made nonlinear via promotion of the angle of attack $\alpha$ to a variable by specifying the load factor $n$ with a given weight $W$ at fixed sideslip angle $\beta$.

Define $\mathbf x = [\boldsymbol\Gamma, \boldsymbol\delta, \alpha]$ as the state vector satisfying the residual equations:

```math
\begin{align*}
    \mathcal R_A(\mathbf x) & = \mathbf A(\boldsymbol\delta) \boldsymbol\Gamma - \mathbf V_\infty(\alpha) \cdot [\mathbf n_i(\boldsymbol\delta)]_{i = 1,\ldots, N} \\
    \mathcal R_S(\mathbf x) & = \mathbf K \boldsymbol\delta - \mathbf f(\boldsymbol\delta, \boldsymbol\Gamma, \alpha) \\
    \mathcal R_L(\mathbf x) & = L(\boldsymbol\delta, \boldsymbol\Gamma, \alpha) - n W \\
\end{align*}
```

where the lift $L$ is obtained from the Kutta-Jowkowski theorem.

```math
[D, Y, L] = \mathbf R_B^W(\alpha, \beta)\left(\sum_{i = 1}^N \rho \mathbf V_i \times  \boldsymbol\Gamma_i \mathbf l_i(\boldsymbol\delta)\right)
```

and the structural load vector $\mathbf f$ is obtained from conservative and consistent load averaging of the nearfield Kutta-Jowkowski forces.

```math

```

## Flight Dynamics

### Longitudinal Motion

A standard three degrees-of-freedom rigid body model is used for performing flight dynamics analyses in the 2-dimensional longitudinal plane formulated as an initial-value problem. The coupled differential equations are shown in a canonical state-space representation, with the time-evolution of the state vector $\mathbf x$ driven by the forcing function $\mathbf f$ are shown below subject to initial conditions $\mathbf x_0$.

```math
\begin{align*}
    \frac{d\mathbf x}{dt} & = \mathbf f(\mathbf x, t) \\
    \frac{d}{dt}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        u_b \\
        w_b \\
        Q \\
        x_e \\
        y_e \\
        \Theta \\
        \delta_e \\
        m
    \end{bmatrix} & =
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -Qw_b + (T - D(V_\infty)\cos\alpha + L(V_\infty, \delta_e)\sin\alpha - W\sin\Theta) / m \\
        Qu_b + (  - D(V_\infty)\sin\alpha - L(V_\infty, \delta_e)\cos\alpha + W\cos\Theta) / m \\
        (M_A(\alpha, \delta_e, \hat Q) - T\Delta_{zT}) / I_{yy} \\
        u_b \cos\Theta - w_b \sin\Theta \\
        u_b \sin\Theta + w_b \cos\Theta \\
        Q \\
        g(\mathbf x, t) \\
        -c_T T
    \end{bmatrix}
\end{align*}
```
The fuel burn over time (viz. reduction of mass $m$) is computed using a specific fuel consumption value with a linear dependence on the thrust. A manual controller law for the elevator deflection angle $\delta_e$ can also be implemented by providing the function $g(\mathbf x, t)$.

### Full Space

A standard six degrees-of-freedom rigid body model is used for performing flight dynamics analyses in 3 dimensions.

```math

```

## References

1. Mark Drela. _Flight Vehicle Aerodynamics_. MIT Press, 2014.
2. Joseph Katz and Allen Plotkin. _Low-Speed Aerodynamics, Second Edition_. Cambridge University Press, 2001.

---

*This page was generated using [Literate.jl](https://github.com/fredrikekre/Literate.jl).*
